Add ruby client doc (#1839)
risingwavelabs/risingwave-docs: docs/dev/ruby-client-libraries.md

---
id: ruby-client-libraries
title: Use RisingWave in your Ruby application

> description: Use RisingWave in your Ruby application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Use RisingWave in your Ruby application.
```

slug: /ruby-client-libraries
---

As RisingWave is wire-compatible with PostgreSQL, you can use third-party PostgreSQL drivers to interact with RisingWave from your Ruby applications.

## Use `ruby-pg` to connect to RisingWave

In this section, we use the [`ruby-pg`](https://github.com/ged/ruby-pg) driver to connect to RisingWave.

### Run RisingWave

To learn about how to run RisingWave, see [Run RisingWave](/get-started.md#run-risingwave).

### Install the `ruby-pg` driver

For information about how to install `ruby-pg`, see the [official ruby-pg documentation](https://github.com/ged/ruby-pg?tab=readme-ov-file#how-to-install).

### Connect to RisingWave

To connect to RisingWave via `ruby-pg`:

```ruby
require 'pg'

conn = PG.connect(host: '127.0.0.1', port: 4566, dbname: 'dev', user: 'root')
```

:::note

> `BasicTypeMapForResults` class doesn't support currently, you need cast RisingWave types into Ruby types manually.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `BasicTypeMapForResults` class isn't supported currently, you need to cast RisingWave types into Ruby types manually.
```
